[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I studied homeopathy.
And to my amazement, I found
that homeopathy actually
offered something as an option
to orthodox vaccination--
in other words, a
form of immunization.
We call it now homeoprophylaxis.
And that's when I
really decided to make
that my main focus in clinic.
So I started practicing in 1984.
And by 1985, I designed
a program to be used
by Australian parents-- because,
of course, I'm in Australia--
as an option for them instead
of the orthodox vaccination
program.
And of course, things
have developed since then.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Not only has this been my main
focus in my professional life,
but I've been in
touch over the years
with literally tens of
thousands of families
who are making decisions.
And to be honest with
you, especially these days
but even 30 years ago,
the decision whether
or not to vaccinate,
whether to use some option,
is one of the hardest decisions
new parents have to make.
Because, of course, we
know, especially now,
the overwhelming amount
of promotion, advertising,
and pressure from all areas
within orthodox medicine,
and from politicians and from
the community in general,
for people to vaccinate.
So I really have seen many,
many people agonize over
this decision.
And some of them have
decided to vaccinate,
and some have decided
to use homeoprophylaxis.
My own view is that
I'm there to be
a person who gives
them options, who
gives them factual information.
Because one of the main
things in this whole debate
is the absence of simple truths.
There's a whole lot of
information out there
which is not accurate,
which is not evidence-based
even though there are
claims that it is.
And for parents to
have simple truths
about safety and effectiveness
of both vaccination
and homeoprophylaxis, to me,
is the most important thing
that I can do-- hence, all
the research I've done from,
really, 1985 onwards.
>> The distinction between
homeoprophylaxis and vaccines--
because they start
from the same premise.
They start from using
the disease product--
is a number of things.
One, attenuation.
And attenuation means to weaken.
So vaccines are attenuated
to a certain point,
but there's still
a pathogen present.
Homeoprophylaxis is
attenuated until there
are no molecules of the
original substance at all.
So you've rendered it
an energetic frequency.
So it's just like downloading
information from the universe.
You're downloading information
instead of introducing
something that's material.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Another difference is the
route of introduction.
Vaccines are introduced
with a needle,
so they're injected
directly into the system.
Mother nature does not impart
disease in that fashion.
Mother nature gives disease
through mucous membrane.
We breathe something in.
We eat something.
And homeoprophylaxis is on a
pellet that's put in the mouth
so that it's being introduced
to the mucous membrane.
Another difference is the
additives that are in vaccines.
Vaccines are grown on mediums.
Frequently, they're animal
mediums, monkey's kidneys.
They have casing.
They have-- even on
human diploid tissue,
on aborted fetal tissue.
And those tissues
of other life forms
carry viruses and
things that are unknown.
So you are taking
that into your system.
It's becoming part of your DNA.
If you get a vaccine that's
been grown on a monkey kidney,
then that DNA is becoming
part of your system.
Also, there are
different excipients.
There's preservatives.
There's antibiotics.
And there's adjuvants
in vaccines.
And adjuvants are designed
to boost the response
to the vaccine so that it
will create antibodies.
And homeoprophylaxis
has none of these
because homeoprophylaxis
doesn't aim
to just increase antibodies.
It's addressing the immune
system in a balanced way
so that it's addressing both
innate and adaptive arms
of the immune system, giving
overall long-term health
benefits.
>> I've had my practice
now for, I think, 20 years.
I'm graduated as a
homeopath for 20 years now.
And first, I did it together
with my other job as a lawyer.
And after some years,
I thought, OK, I
have to focus on homeopathy.
And I quit my job as a lawyer,
and I only was a homeopath.
But because you're a lawyer,
professional organization,
the [INAUDIBLE]---- this is
the profession of the Dutch
classical homeopath-- they
were very interested to have
somebody in their board.
So I did that for 10 years.
And for nine years, I was
the representative for them,
for the ECCH.
That's the European
classical council.
I had a small practice.
And then three years ago, I
met Isaac Golden on a congress.
And it was about
homeopathic prophylaxis.
And what he told me
and the way he told me
and the way he
inspired me, I thought,
OK, I want to know
more about this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I felt the need to come
here to Europe to get this
conference put together
in the Netherlands,
where we have people coming
in from all over Europe.
We've got people coming in--
a big group coming from Japan,
and several coming from India.
It's just incredible
because this is what
people are wanting to know.
This is what people are
wanting to be assured about.
And indeed, this isn't going
to be the last one for HPWWC,
or Homeoprophylaxis,
a Worldwide Choice.
There's already a big interest
in getting one going for Asia.
I've been contacted to get
one going for South America.
It's going to
continue because this
is what people want to know.
And ultimately what
I really want--
and I've heard this said from
several of the homeopaths
and professionals
who have been coming
to present at
these conferences--
is to actually not
have to do this anymore
because homeoprophylaxis
will have
gained a worldwide recognition.
>> What I've loved with HP
and what I've noticed is I get
to see a very unique--
it's a unique way
to really learn
about their individual
susceptibilities,
how does their individual
immune system work.
I have loved getting to
see that as a mother.
I'm getting to learn--
and I'd say, when parents
ask me, well, what is this?
What are you doing?
And I tell them,
well, it's going
to be a little more work
because you're completely
paying attention to
your child in a way
that, if you follow a
schedule of the vaccines,
you're not paying
attention in that same way.
Like when I give
my HP nosodes, I
will write down what I notice.
I will write down, oh, Alexander
had a longer nap today.
Or oh, he was crankier today.
Or Austin has more difficulty
with his respiratory system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've also been
pleasantly surprised.
I've gotten to see a
jump, a developmental jump
for both boys.
When I give HP, it gives
me a wonderful opportunity
to get to know the individual
beauty of their immune systems.
I give a nosode.
I watch.
I listen.
I notice what's coming up.
How is their body
uniquely working with it?
I've actually had
the pleasant surprise
of seeing a developmental jump.
After I gave a
particular nosode,
I saw, within 48 hours,
a change in which--
it was the younger one.
He was on the precipice
of learning to crawl.
He would do this
funny crawl where
he would hook one leg a little,
and so he would hobble along
with one knee.
And I remember I had given
him a particular nosode.
He'd had an extra long nap.
I wasn't thinking
anything of it.
And lo and behold, the next
time he was trying to crawl,
he had more readily
straightened that leg
and was doing the motions
that he needed to.
And I was like, no,
that couldn't be.
Could that really be what I've
heard about with HP, that there
could be this kind
of developmental leap
as if he actually had the
positive ramifications
of that disease?
And in this case, being
the energetic disease.
I've gotten to see
that in both of them.
In the older one, because
he started HP later
than the younger one did, I
got to see an older child's
developmental leap, like
a deepening of language.
He was at that stage where he
was learning more language.
And it was almost as if he
spoke more proficiently and more
thoughtfully.
I was surprised to hear
what he came up with.
I was like, is this
that other type
of developmental-- you know.
So it's given me an opportunity
to notice, to really notice
them in their unique ways.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It started when I was
pregnant and my physician
recommended that I get the
whopping cough vaccine.
I was concerned about putting
something into my body
while I was pregnant,
so I researched it.
I had them show me the insert
for the specific vaccine.
I looked online,
and I saw that there
were no studies showing
that it was actually
safe for pregnant women.
And then I asked a
bunch of friends,
and I didn't get
positive results.
I decided to use
HP after I looked
into vaccines while pregnant.
My physician recommended it.
I had them look at
the insert and tell me
what kind of vaccine it was.
And there were no studies
showing that it was actually
safe for pregnant women.
It said it was never
tested on pregnant women.
So that made me
look into vaccines,
and I realized that it
wasn't a safe option.
I'm not a gambler.
And I felt like giving
my child vaccines
was a gamble because
she could be fine,
but she could have detrimental
side effects, even death.
So I wasn't willing to do that.
I then looked into HP.
I contacted somebody
about HP, and she gave me
tons of studies, said it
was safe and effective.
And to me, that was
enough to choose HP.
My husband was pretty
supportive, thankfully.
He trusted that I was making
the choice diligently.
It wasn't just because I wanted
to do something different.
I spent a lot of time,
energy, and research to it.
My mom, who I'm really close
with, was really supportive.
My physician was not supportive.
I asked him.
I asked the midwife
at the hospital,
and they both said that there
were no studies on it, which
turned out not to be true.
That led me to go
to a different--
I went to a birthing center
instead of the hospital,
and it was much
better received there.
>> We know, because of the way
that homeopathic medicines are
made through a process of
dilution and succussion.
If you don't have
both, they don't work.
We know that there
are no toxic elements
in the medicines themselves.
So in other words,
with, for example,
pertussin, which is the
remedy for whooping cough,
we know that there are no
molecules of whooping cough
organism in that remedy.
So the person can't
get the disease,
and they can't shed it.
They can't pass it
on to other people.
And also, we know that
there is no aluminum.
There's no formaldehyde.
There's none of
the other materials
that are in common vaccines.
So we know that the
remedies themselves
are very safe in the
sense of being non-toxic.
What we don't know
necessarily is effectiveness,
because there's no point
in having something safe
if it doesn't work.
And so that's where the
focus of my research
has been based, collecting
evidence from around the world
as to the effectiveness of
homeopathic immunization
or homeoprophylaxis.
And to summarize
it, what we find
is an effectiveness of
around the 90% mark.
It ranges between about 75% to
95%, but around the 90% mark.
>> For me, an
immune system has--
it's very complicated.
It has several ways how
they can protect the body.
And one of the ways
is via vaccination.
It gives some chemical
reactions that gives
an antidote for a disease.
That's vaccination.
But the vaccine contains
several dangerous materials,
and that can harm
a child as well.
A homeopathic prophylaxis
uses homeopathic remedies.
And what do I see when I
give a homeopathic remedy?
What do I see when I give
a homeopathic prophylaxis?
It's the same,
the same reaction.
The body accepted it and
respond in, hm, that's good.
I want to get rid of my--
and whatever it is.
And then you see
a little sweaty,
or you see some diarrhea,
or you see some nose drops.
Or where you have a
child with ear problems,
you see something
out of his ear.
So that's way how the
body's cleaning itself.
That is what I see with HP.
That is what I see
when I give the remedy.
And sometimes, when you give the
remedy and they get a disease,
then you see that the disease
is very mild, very mild.
So you recognize the symptoms,
but you don't see any harm.
You don't see high
fevers, or you don't see
very much itching, or whatever.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Her health has been amazing.
I think she got a cold
once for a couple of days.
She's had a diaper
rash, and that's it.
No ear infections, no nothing.
She's ridiculously healthy.
Everybody that meets her
actually comments on how alert
she is, and that's always
stuck out to me because I don't
expect a baby to not be alert.
But I attribute
it to her health,
and I'm very happy and
very thankful for that.
I would absolutely recommend
HP to other parents.
I think that using a
safe and effective way
to protect your child
is the best way to go.
And vaccines are--
they're just too risky.
I would never encourage anybody
to go that route versus HP
when there's a safer, more
effective way with zero side
effects.
Simple.
The cost of HP to me, divided up
between the doses, is minimal.
And I'm not somebody that throws
around money, but this, to me,
is an investment.
And it's not even that
big of an investment,
but the cost isn't
a factor for me.
And it wasn't at the time.
If you're looking into
HP or you have a kid
and you're questioning what you
want to do for their health,
I highly, highly recommend HP.
It's safe.
It's effective,
and you don't have
to worry about something
happening to your child
after you've had it.
The people that use this
have looked into it.
And I encourage you to do
your research on both sides.
If you want to look into
vaccines, if you want to look
HP, I encourage you to do that.
And I'm confident
that you'll find
that HP is the better option.
It's the better
option for my family,
and I'm confident it's
going to be the better
option for your family.
>> I'm formerly PhD and
biomedical sciences.
I specialized in
cancer immunologist.
I went through training here
in the United States at UCSD.
And after finishing my program,
I stayed for a couple--
or just one year as
a postdoc working
in epigenetics and cancer
with the focus on immunology.
And afterwards, I, as
I'm a pharmacist trained
and graduated from Mexico, I
decided to license myself here
in the state in California
and became a pharmacist.
So I did all the
qualifications required.
And I became a
clinical pharmacist.
I've been working as a
hospital pharmacist now for--
how I would say it's going
to be close to 10 years.
And on the side, I've still
been doing some consulting
and my research.
As a scientist, we know
about our electrons,
and we know about
photosynthesis.
We know how plants are
so magnificent that they
can actually transform the
light of the sun into energy.
Our animals that we consume
ourselves eat this plant.
So at a certain point,
we're all eating a product
of the sun that is energy.
And if I want to dig more into
it, we actually work on ATP,
and that is energy.
So if I really think about
energetic medicine or just
energy medicine, it
does make sense, 100%,
without me even
knowing the fields
and what I know now
about energy medicine
and how we are
actually a light being.
[WAVES CRASHING]
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
My mom, I think she
was very intuitive.
And she actually
used some homeopathy
when we had some severe
diseases, such as hepatitis
A. We were treated, the entire
time, with homeopathic, which
is an energetic medicine,
because as a pharmacist,
I'm aware that there's
no actual substrate
or medication in the actual
compounded homeopathic
concoction that
they provide to you.
So I saw the effects or I felt
the effects as being a kid.
And as I've grown up, I've
been using homeopathic as well,
and many instances.
And I do see the effect.
So I can only explain
it as energetic.
>> The way that
remedies may work--
well, an interesting question.
I feel that there is not one
answer that satisfies me,
and so it's certainly
not going to satisfy
people who are skeptical.
I feel like we don't
have enough tools yet
to measure how remedies work.
But my understanding of--
the best one for me is the
analogy of the tuning fork.
[PIANO MUSIC]
So if we are energetic
beings, electrical beings
and energetic beings, we
respond to shifts in energy.
And when we apply
the remedy, which
is an energetic
instrument, to the human,
it alters the human state.
And by using a
tuning fork analogy,
I mean if you sound a tuning
fork tuned to the key of C
and hold a second
one up to tune to C,
the second one will reverberate.
If you have a tuning fork tuned
to A and you hold up a C fork,
the C fork will not match the A.
>> When I started giving
parents the option, in 1995,
of using my six-year program,
I also started collecting data.
And my background is in
economics and statistics.
So I knew that even though we
had over 200 years of evidence,
clinical evidence, we didn't
have a lot of statistical data.
So I started collecting
data, and I did my doctorate
between 2000, 2004.
And one part, the first
part of the doctorate,
was looking at the
evidence that I'd collected
and the data I'd collected from
1986, because I started '85.
And the first questions here
were to be answered by '86--
so collecting from '86
to about 2000 or 2002.
And so the analysis of that
formed a very important part
of what I was doing, but I
need to emphasize it's only one
piece in a very large database.
I guess it's unique because
it's the world's largest
long-term study of
homeopathic immunization.
The majority of
other studies are
looking at interventions in
short epidemic situations,
but mine looked at the long-term
use of homeopathic immunization
and how that stood up.
Now, we are finding,
for example,
in the Japanese encephalitis
use in Andhra Pradesh
and in India, a
situation where people
are given annual doses, which
is what I'm basically doing,
giving annual doses
of a particular remedy
against a specified disease.
So the data that I collected,
which showed, by the way,
an average effectiveness
of around 90.4%,
was unique in that sense.
But it's certainly not
unique now in the sense
that we have an overwhelming
body of evidence,
a body of data from
around the world,
talking and showing us
the actual effectiveness
of homeopathic immunization.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm a homeopathic medical
officer in the Department
of Homeopathy in India.
We have AYUSH Ministry, AYUSH
which includes Ayurveda, Yoga,
and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddah.
And the H stands for Homeopathy.
So the government is
providing a huge amount
for the popularity
of homeopathy,
the practice of homeopathy.
And through government
homeopathic dispensaries--
we have different
categories of dispensaries--
free treatment is provided.
Not only treatment, even
prophylactic treatment
is provided.
And it is one of the policies
of the government just
like the way they respect
vaccination of modern medicine.
Whenever there is a
threat of epidemic,
there will be immediately
the team will be going there.
And they'll study
the diagnosed cases.
And once it is
diagnosed, the remedy
will be selected using
the reportization.
And that remedy will
be distributed--
free, of course-- through
the government dispensaries.
Also, we take help
from the NGOs.
Even private homeopathic
doctors organizations,
they also support us.
So free medicines will
be given to the public.
That's what we do.
[PERCUSSION MUSIC]
We often come across diseases
like chicken pox, jaundice,
hepatitis A, and
cholera in some areas
where water stagnation is
more and drainage facilities
are poor--
so cholera.
Similarly, typhoid
in some areas.
And there is
chikungunya-affected areas.
Chikungunya is a new disease.
Normally, it was found
in African countries.
But now in India, also
we see chikungunya.
And in some areas, we have
diseases like malaria,
though in Kerala, it is less.
But in other states,
malaria is also common.
And dengue, now more
active in Kerala
is dengue epidemic
because it is dangerous.
In some individuals, it may
become dengue hemorrhagic fever
and dengue shock syndrome,
so it's very dangerous.
And for that, homeopathy
is wonderful--
not only for the treatment.
Given for the
prevention of dengue,
homeopathy is doing wonders.
Last year, we had selected
Eupatorium perfoliatum
as a prophylaxis against dengue.
And there is no control.
We cannot keep as few people
as control by giving placebo
because there are legal issues.
So what we do, we give the
medicine to those we groups,
and we just compare
the after-effects
with the other group who
have not taken prophylaxis.
So always, the result is
successful, wonderful.
And it follows the use of
homeopathic prophylaxis.
Because those who have taken
homeopathic prophylaxis,
we hardly see any
cases, only a few cases.
Those who are having
less resistance,
only they're affected.
But majority of the
people gain resistance
after taking
homeopathic prophylaxis.
>> So my own plans
center around India.
And I'm making, I
hope, my fourth trip
to India in April this year.
Because really, homeopathy is
held with a special respect
in India.
They have a most wonderful
public health system
for a country that has
a huge number of people
who are living below the
poverty line, very often,
or in very poor conditions.
But their public health
system is outstanding,
something that my own
country, Australia,
would do well to look at.
And that's because when
Prime Minister Modi came in,
he elevated the Department of
AYUSH, which is effectively
the Department of
Natural Medicine,
to an equal standing to the
Department of Health, which is
more pharmaceutical medicine.
And this meant that the people
running at that department
were people who cared
for natural medicine
and want to see it succeed.
So India really is the place,
the one country in the world,
that has kept the flame of
homeopathy well and truly
alive.
And certainly,
throughout India, they
are using homeoprophylaxis.
to a very large extent
and in very large numbers.
The biggest single
intervention that I'm aware of
was against Japanese
encephalitis
back in 1999, 2000, 2001 in what
was then Andhra Pradesh state.
Now, Andhra Pradesh
since then has
been split into Andhra
Pradesh and Telangana
because it was so large.
But they immunized around
20 million children,
14 years and under, against
Japanese encephalitis.
And to be honest with
you, when I first
heard that, I just
wondered, well,
is this realistic, 20 million
children, 14 years and under?
And then I looked at the
population of Andhra Pradesh,
and it was over 18 million.
So yes, that was totally
likely to be the number.
And I've been there, and
I've visited the doctors
who led that program.
And when you look
at the data, you
see that by 2003, the incidence
of Japanese encephalitis
in Andhra Pradesh had fallen
to zero, as had death.
Whereas when you look at
the states surrounding,
they still had a problem.
So it was not a perfect
double-blind, randomized,
controlled trial.
You don't need those
sort of studies
to prove the effectiveness
of a practical intervention
like homeoprophylaxis.
The results from this, the
world's largest intervention,
actually speak for themselves.
And my understanding
is they're still
using that program in
Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
to prevent, successfully,
Japanese encephalitis.
But I've had the
very good fortune,
again, to work with the
key people at the Central
Council for Research
in Homeopathy in India.
They're doing wonderful work
there, and very, very well led
by dedicated
scientists and doctors.
And it just goes to show.
I mean, India may be, for
much of its population,
a poor country, but it's
also a very advanced country
in many areas of
science and technology.
It has that dual aspect, India,
throughout the whole country,
throughout the whole society.
And the work they're
doing with homeopathy
in general and
homeoprophylaxis. in particular
is really leading the world.
So that's where I think
my next lot of studies
is going to be focused,
because we've got so much
we can learn from India.
They can teach us so much.
They can teach
the world so much.
Of course, it's not
popular with big pharma
because they can't
make money out of it.
But facts are facts.
And what the Indians
are doing and showing
is facts in literally tens
of millions of people.
>> Majority of the people,
they don't want any type
of diseases.
So they prefer a system that
cannot produce side effects.
So obviously, the number of
people coming to homeopathy for
prophylaxis
increasing day by day.
There's a huge demand.
So when there isn't a threat for
epidemic, obviously all people,
especially those NGOs--
and there are many
organizations--
they keep on requesting
us for the medicines.
So we arrange medical
camps, and we just
distribute the medicine.
So obviously, day by day,
the demand for homeopathy
is increasing.
So recently, our district
collector in Kerala
had given order to the
government employees
that you must take
homeopathic prophylaxis.
It was published
in the newspaper.
Even the health minister,
even MLAs, even general public
and NGOs, they're
also supporting.
And schools,
teachers, they are all
favoring homeopathic
prophylaxis.
The reason homeopathic
prophylaxis camp
or meeting or any distribution,
obviously, the media
will support us.
Different newspapers, television
channels, news channels, they
all support us.
They will be publishing that
on so and so date, so and so
dispensary will be distributing
medicine-- free, of course.
So once that report comes,
obviously, the public
will be there.
And even the politicians,
like ministers or MLAs--
or we have a local government
called [NON-ENGLISH]..
So they actively take part
in our distribution of HP
because most of them, they are
providing even financial aid,
transportation, everything,
for the distribution
of homeopathic prophylaxis.
So from all levels-- from
state level, district level,
village level--
we are getting support from the
various levels of government.
The media support
is most important
because what media writes,
majority of the people
will come to know
only using that.
And even we get the support
from various religious
organizations.
We have Christian
community organizations,
Hindu organizations, and
Muslim organizations.
And they all inform the
public whenever the people
come for the prayers.
Or they inform that
on so and so date,
there is a homeopathic
prophylaxis distribution.
So people come
towards the program,
and it becomes successful, yeah.
[THEME MUSIC]